# distributr
Tidy distributed computing workflows for R and Sun/Open Grid Engine

    devtools::install_github("patr1ckm/distributr")
    
The basic function is `grid_apply`, which applies a function over a grid of its arguments (`expand.grid(...)`), returning results in a list. Function applications can be executed repeatedly and in parallel.

### grid_apply
 
```{r, eval=TRUE}
do.one <- function(n, mu, sd){ mean(rnorm(n, mu, sd)) }

sim <- grid_apply(do.one, n = c(50, 100, 500), mu = c(1,5), sd = c(1, 5, 10), 
              .reps=50, .mc.cores=5)
```

The only constraint arguments to `do.one` must be scalar (not vectors or data frames). In practice, data (or data chunks) can be loaded by index or generated by these arguments.


### tidy

A tidy method is provided that merges the list of results with the argument grid, putting the results in tidy (long) form. This format is convenient for plotting and further data analysis. `tidy` works with lists of vectors, lists, and data frames. If present, names of elements of vectors or lists are used as a key. For a list of data frames, the row and column names are `key` and `key2`.

The function `gapply` runs `grid_apply` followed by `tidy`. 

```{r, eval=TRUE}
res <- sim %>% tidy
res <- gapply(do.one, n = c(50, 100, 500), mu = c(1,5), sd = c(1, 5, 10), 
              .reps=50, .mc.cores=5)
```

### Warnings and Errors

```{r, eval=TRUE}
err(sim)
warn(sim)
```

### Sun/Open Grid Engine

A compute plan can be setup and executed using the Sun/Open Grid Engine scheduler. Rows of the argument grid are submitted to nodes, and replications are carried out in parallel via `mclapply`. 

```{r}
sim <- gapply(do.one, n = c(50, 100, 500), mu = c(1,5), sd = c(1, 5, 10), .eval=F)
sim <- setup(sim, .reps=500, .mc.cores = 5)
submit(sim)   
res <- collect(sim) %>% tidy
```
The `setup` function asks for user confirmation if an existing argument grid would be overwritten.

### Job Access, Adding jobs, Selecting a subset of jobs

Jobs can be added to the compute plan via `add_jobs`. A set of jobs can be selected from the argument grid using `filter_jobs` and the usual dplyr syntax to `filter`.

```{r}
jobs(sim)                              # access jobs grid (argument grid)
add_jobs(sim, n=1000, mu=10, sd=50)    # add jobs to plan
filter_jobs(sim, n < 100, .mc.cores=5) # filter jobs as in dplyr
```

